C., Wortsman, M., et al. Laion-5b: An open large-scale dataset for training next generation image-text models. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 35: 25278–25294, 2022.

Shokri, R., Stronati, M., Song, C., and Shmatikov, V. Membership inference attacks against machine learning models. In 2017 IEEE symposium on security and privacy (SP), pp. 3–18. IEEE, 2017.

Sohl-Dickstein, J., Weiss, E., Maheswaranathan, N., and Ganguli, S. Deep unsupervised learning using nonequilibrium thermodynamics. In International conference on machine learning, pp. 2256–2265. PMLR, 2015.

Song, C. and Raghunathan, A. Information leakage in embedding models. In Proceedings of the 2020 ACM SIGSAC conference on computer and communications security, pp. 377–390, 2020.

Song, J., Meng, C., and Ermon, S. Denoising diffusion implicit models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.02502, 2020a.

Song, Y. and Ermon, S. Generative modeling by estimating gradients of the data distribution. Advances in neural information processing systems, 32, 2019.

Song, Y., Sohl-Dickstein, J., Kingma, D. P., Kumar, A., Ermon, S., and Poole, B. Score-based generative modeling through stochastic differential equations. arXiv preprint arXiv:2011.13456, 2020b.

Tang, S., Wu, Z. S., Aydore, S., Kearns, M., and Roth, A. Membership inference attacks on diffusion models via quantile regression. arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.05140, 2023.

Wang, Z., Bovik, A. C., Sheikh, H. R., and Simoncelli, E. P. Image quality assessment: from error visibility to structural similarity. IEEE transactions on image processing, 13(4):600–612, 2004.

Wu, C. H. and De la Torre, F. A latent space of stochastic diffusion models for zero-shot image editing and guidance. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision, pp. 7378–7387, 2023.

Wu, J. Z., Ge, Y., Wang, X., Lei, S. W., Gu, Y., Shi, Y., Hsu, W., Shan, Y., Qie, X., and Shou, M. Z. Tune-a-video: One-shot tuning of image diffusion models for text-to-video generation. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision, pp. 7623–7633, 2023.

Wu, Y., Yu, N., Li, Z., Backes, M., and Zhang, Y. Membership inference attacks against text-to-image generation models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.00968, 2022.

Yeom, S., Giacomelli, I., Fredrikson, M., and Jha, S. Privacy risk in machine learning: Analyzing the connection to overfitting. In 2018 IEEE 31st computer security foundations symposium (CSF), pp. 268–282. IEEE, 2018.

Yu, J., Xu, Y., Koh, J. Y., Luong, T., Baid, G., Wang, Z., Vasudevan, V., Ku, A., Yang, Y., Ayan, B. K., et al. Scaling autoregressive models for content-rich text-to-image generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2206.10789, 2(3):5, 2022.