We benchmark GSA₁ and GSA₂ against existing methodologies, maintaining all other model parameters consistent. Contrasting traditional loss-based white-box attacks such as LiRA [4] and others techniques [27, 35], we provide a thorough evaluation highlighting the superior efficacy of GSA₁ and GSA₂. The baseline approach [27, 35, 64] depicted in Table 4 is the most intuitive, which predicts the sample as a non-member if the loss exceeds a certain value and vice versa [35]. This also represents the most traditional judgment method in MIA, utilized here as the baseline.

5.1.1 Feature Informative. LSA $ ^{*} $ refers to the results of training the attack model using the loss under the same training conditions and sampling frequency as GSA $ _{1} $ and GSA $ _{2} $. The sole distinction between LSA $ ^{*} $ and GSA lies in their features: while LSA $ ^{*} $ utilizes loss as its attack feature, GSA employs the gradient. Comparative results between them substantiate that the gradient information of the diffusion model is more aptly suited as attack features.

It is apparent from Table 4 that both GSA₁ and GSA₂ exceed other techniques in terms of all evaluation metrics. Under the AUC criterion, LiRA [4] also attains a high attack accuracy, attributed to excessive training steps and many shadow models. However, when ensuring an equivalent quantity of shadow models and training epochs for the LiRA based on the LiRA framework, its ASR, TPR, and AUC scores are significantly lower compared to GSA₁ and GSA₂. In the original paper, the LiRA framework achieves TPRs of 5% after training for 200 epochs, with the FPRs fixed at 1%. Remarkably, after training for 4080 epochs, the TPR increases to 99%. In contrast, for GSA₁ and GSA₂, TPRs of 99.7% and 78.75% are respectively achieved after only 400 epochs, underscoring a more efficient attack strategy. This essentially corroborates our core proposition that gradient information of the model exhibits a more pronounced response to member set samples than loss.
