Membership Inference Attack. Membership inference attacks, primarily steered by the seminal work of Homer et al. [25], have become an integral part of privacy attack research. The nature of these attacks is typically determined by the depth of information obtained about the target model, whether they are black-box [6, 28, 46, 50, 52, 55, 58, 64] or white-box [38, 44]. The primary objective lies in determining whether a sample is part of the target model's training set using various metrics functions such as loss [46, 64], confidence [50], entropy [50, 55], or difficulty calibration [61].


Defense. As the popularity of diffusion models continues to rise, a growing body of research quickly unfolds around the privacy and security protections associated with these models. Attacks on diffusion models currently extend beyond mere training data leakage [4, 12, 14, 27, 35, 62] to include the potential use of sensitive data for training [51], as well as model theft [40]. Consequently, effective defense mechanisms against these novel attack types have started to emerge. To prevent the leakage of training data from the target model, privacy distillation [14] methods can be employed. Using this approach, a secure diffusion model can be trained on data generated by the target model after sensitive information has been filtered out. This effectively prevents the leakage of sensitive information during the model training process. For artists concerned about their artwork being used to train diffusion models to generate similar styles, GLAZE [51] teams suggest adding a watermark to the original art pieces to prevent them from being mimicked by diffusion models. Simultaneously, for every institution, a diffusion model trained using computational resources can be considered one of the company's assets. As such, the desired target model can be fine-tuned to learn a unique diffusion process [40], which in turn, contributes to the model's protection.

## 10 Conclusion
