From our experimental data, we observed that the attack's success rate was lowest when gradient information was collected only once per sample. This limited data collection blurred the distinction between member and non-member set samples. Notably, the precision saw a significant boost when the collection frequency increased. However, after reaching a threshold of ten collections per sample, further increases in frequency showed diminishing returns in precision. Thus, we inferred that, for both attack strategies across these two datasets, collecting gradient information ten times from each sample is optimal for distinguishing between member and non-member sets. In other experiments, to strike a balance between efficiency and precision, we will adopt this ten-times-per-sample information collection formula as the default setting.

Different Diffusion Steps and Training Image Resolution. In the context of diffusion models, increasing the number of diffusion steps can potentially enhance image quality. This improvement stems from the model's refined capability to capture detailed image nuances by reducing noise over more steps. However, as we add more diffusion steps, the optimization challenge might become more complex. This complexity can slow down the convergence speed and require more detailed hyperparameter adjustments to find the optimal model setup.

When contemplating membership inference attacks, their genesis primarily stems from overfitting during the training phase, leading to discrepancies between the member and non-member samples. We theorize that if adding diffusion steps slows model convergence, it might reduce the overfitting phenomenon, affecting the attack's success. We set the total diffusion steps from 500 to 2000, kept other parameters unchanged, and retrained the model on both ImageNet and CIFAR-10 datasets.

In Figure 5a, we observe that increasing the number of diffusion steps significantly influences our attack success rate, which aligns with our hypothesis. For models trained on CIFAR-10, both  $ GSA_{1} $ and  $ GSA_{2} $ achieve an attack accuracy close to 1.00 after training with 300 epochs. However, as the number of denoising steps increases, the attack accuracy decreases by nearly 10% when the denoising step is set to 2000. The increase in denoising steps leads to a decrease in attack accuracy. This pattern is also observed for models trained on ImageNet when attacked with  $ GSA_{1} $ and  $ GSA_{2} $. We think this is because MIA relies on exploiting the model's overfitting. However, increasing the denoising steps slows down the model's convergence, thereby impairing the effectiveness of the attack.
