Pursuant to this idea, We once again conducted experiments using GSA₁ and GSA₂ on datasets, including CIFAR-10, ImageNet, and MS COCO, while maintaining all other settings according to the default configuration in Table 3. We gradually increased the depth of layers from which we collected gradient information. As illustrated in Figure 9, the x-axis denotes the cumulative number of layers from which gradients are gathered, starting from the top layer. The y-axis employs the True Positive Rate (TPR) at a False Positive Rate (FPR) of 0.1% as the evaluative criterion. The results indicate that as we collect gradient information from increasing layers, the attack success rate correspondingly escalates due to enhanced information accessibility. Remarkably, attaining the highest attack success rate can be achieved merely by gathering gradient data from the top 80% layers of the models. Accordingly, it may not be essential to extract gradient information from each distinct layer of the model, potentially leading to significant computational resource savings.


<div style="text-align: center;">Figure 7: The performance of LSA $ ^{*} $, GSA $ _{1} $ and GSA $ _{2} $ under varying defensive strategies is displayed. ‘Vanilla’ refers to the model without any defense methods. ‘RA’ represents RandAugment, and ‘RHF’ denotes RandomHorizontalFlip.</div>


## 7 Defenses

Membership inference attacks are significantly fueled by the overfitting of models to their training data. Thus, mitigating overfitting, such as through data augmentation, could reduce the success rate of these attacks. We employed various methods of data augmentation [8, 9] methods and DP-SGD [1, 13], a strong privacy-preserving method, as defensive mechanisms against the LSA $ ^{*} $, GSA $ _{1} $ and GSA $ _{2} $ attacks. The results following the implementation of these defense mechanisms are presented in Table 6.
