Protecting artists from style mimicry by text-to-image models, 2023.

[52] SHOKRI, K., STRONATI, M., SONG, C., AND SHMATIKOV, V. Membership inference attacks against machine learning models. In 2017 IEEE symposium on security and privacy (SP) (2017), IEEE, pp. 3–18.

[53] SOHL-DICKSTEIN, J., WEISS, E., MAHESWARANATHAN, N., AND GANGULI, S. Deep unsupervised learning using nonequilibrium thermodynamics. In International Conference on Machine Learning (2015), PMLR, pp. 2256–2265.

[54] SONG, J., MENG, C., AND ERMON, S. Denoising diffusion implicit models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.02502 (2020).

[55] SONG, L., AND MITTAL, P. Systematic evaluation of privacy risks of machine learning models. In 30th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 21) (2021), pp. 2615–2632.

[56] SONG, Y., AND ERMON, S. Generative modeling by estimating gradients of the data distribution. Advances in neural information processing systems 32 (2019).

[57] Song, Y., SOHL-DICKSTEIN, J., KINGMA, D. P., KUMAR, A., ERMON, S., AND POOLE, B. Score-based generative modeling through stochastic differential equations. arXiv preprint arXiv:2011.13456 (2020).

[58] TRUEX, S., LIU, L., GURSOY, M. E., YU, L., AND WEI, W. Demystifying membership inference attacks in machine learning as a service. IEEE Transactions on Services Computing 14, 6 (2019), 2073–2089.

[59] VAN DER MAATEN, L., AND HINTON, G. E. Visualizing data using t-sne. Journal of Machine Learning Research 9 (2008), 2579–2605.

[60] VON PLATEN, P., PATIL, S., LOZHKOV, A., CUENCA, P., LAMBERT, N., RASUL, K., DAVAADORJ, M., AND WOLF, T. Diffusers: State-of-the-art diffusion models. https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers, 2022.

61] WATSON, L., GUO, C., CORMODE, G., AND SABLAYROLLES, A. On the importance of difficulty calibration in membership inference attacks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2111.08440 (2021).

[62] Wu, Y., Yu, N., Li, Z., Backes, M., and Zhang, Y. Membership inference attacks against text-to-image generation models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.00968 (2022).

[63] YE, J., MADDI, A., MURAKONDA, S. K., BINDSCHAEDLER, V., AND SHOKRI, R. Enhanced membership inference attacks against machine learning models. In Proceedings of the 2022 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security (2022), pp. 3093–3106.

[64] Yeom, S., GIACOMELLI, I., FREDRIKSON, M., AND JHA, S. Privacy risk in machine learning: Analyzing the connection to overfitting. In 2018 IEEE 31st computer security foundations symposium (CSF) (2018), IEEE, pp. 268–282.

[65] YOSINSKI, J., CLUNE, J., BENGIO, Y., AND LIPSON, H. How transferable are features in deep neural networks? Advances in neural information processing systems 27 (2014).

[66] YU, J., XU, Y., KOH, J. Y., LUONG, T., BAID, G., WANG, Z., VASUDEVAN, V., KU, A., YANG, Y., AYAN, B. K., ET AL. Scaling autoregressive models for content-rich text-to-image generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2206.10789 (2022).

### A Additional Information for Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Model

The operating mechanism of the diffusion model entails the model learning the posterior probability of the forward process, thereby achieving the denoising process. In the forward noise addition process, assume that there is a sample  $ x_{t-1} $ at time point  $ t-1 $. Then  $ x_{t} $ can be represented as:

$$  x_{t}=\sqrt{\alpha_{t}}x_{t-1}+\sqrt{1-\alpha_{t}}\epsilon,\;\epsilon\sim\mathcal{N}(0,1)   \tag*{(5)}$$

Since  $ \epsilon $ is a random noise, we can unroll the recursive definition and derive  $ x_t $ directly from  $ x_0 $ (the original image) and time step  $ t $ (and  $ \tilde{\alpha}_t = \prod_{i=1}^t \alpha_i $):

$$  x_{t}=\sqrt{\bar{\alpha}_{t}}x_{0}+\sqrt{1-\bar{\alpha}_{t}}\epsilon_{t},\epsilon_{t}\sim N(0,1)   \tag*{(6)}$$

The reverse process can be described as:

 $$ p_{\theta}(x_{0:T})=p(x_{T})\prod_{t=1}^{T}p_{\theta}(x_{t-1}|x_{t}) $$ 

where  $ x_{T}^{\prime} \sim \mathcal{N}(0, I) $. The image  $ x_{t-1}^{\prime} $ at t-1 can be restored from  $ x_{t}^{\prime} $ at time t, and can be represented as:

$$  p_{\theta}(x_{t-1}^{\prime}|x_{t}^{\prime})=\mathcal{N}(x_{t-1}^{\prime};\boldsymbol{\mu}_{\theta}(x_{t}^{\prime},t),\boldsymbol{\Sigma}_{\theta}(x_{t}^{\prime},t))   \tag*{(7)}$$

In the reverse process, the model aims to use the posterior probability of the forward process to guide the denoising process.

 $$ q(x_{t-1}|x_{t},x_{0})=N(x_{t-1};\bar{\mu}(x_{t},x_{0}),\bar{\beta}_{t}\mathbf{I}) $$ 

As the  $ \bar{\beta}_{t} $ in the posterior probability is also a determined value, the model only needs to learn  $ \bar{\mu}(x_{t}, t) $.

In Equation 7,  $ \mu_{\theta}(x_t', t) $ is the predicted mean of the distribution for the sample  $ x_t'_{-1} $ at the preceding timestep, and  $ \Sigma_{\theta}(x_t', t) $ denotes the covariance matrix of this distribution. In the original study,  $ \Sigma_{\theta}(x_t', t) = \sigma_t^2 I $ is set as untrained time-dependent constants. Consequently, our primary attention is dedicated to the mean  $ \mu_{\theta}(x_t', t) $ of the predictive network  $ p_{\theta} $. By expanding the aforementioned posterior probability using a probability density function, we can derive the mean and variance of the posterior probability. Given that the variance in  $ p_{\theta}(x_t'_{-1}|x_t') $ is associated with  $ \beta_t $ and is a deterministic value, our attention is solely on the mean.

When we express  $ x_0 $ in terms of  $ x_t $ (from Equation 6) within the mean  $ \tilde{\mu}(x_t, x_0) $, the revised  $ \tilde{\mu}(x_t, x_0) $ then only consists of  $ x_t $ and random noise  $ \epsilon_t $. Given that  $ x_t $ is known at the current time step  $ t $, the task can be reformulated as predicting the random variable  $ \epsilon_t $. The  $ \tilde{\mu}(x_t, x_0) $ can be represented as:

 $$ \tilde{\mu}(x_{t},x_{0})=\frac{1}{\sqrt{\alpha_{t}}}(x_{t}-\frac{\beta_{t}}{\sqrt{1-\bar{\alpha}_{t}}}\epsilon_{t}) $$ 

Concurrently,  $ \mu_{\theta}(x_{t}^{\prime}, t) $ can be expressed as:

 $$ \boldsymbol{\mu}_{\theta}(x_{t}^{\prime},t)=\frac{1}{\sqrt{\alpha_{t}}}(x_{t}^{\prime}-\frac{\beta_{t}}{\sqrt{1-\bar{\alpha}_{t}}}\epsilon_{\theta}(x_{t}^{\prime},t)) $$ 

Thus, the initial loss function for calculating the prediction of  $ \mu_{\theta}(x_{t}^{\prime}, t) $ can be reformulated into an equation predicting the noise  $ \epsilon_{\theta}(x_{t}, t) $.

$$  \begin{aligned}&L_{t}(\theta)\\=&\mathbb{E}_{x_{0},\epsilon}\left[\frac{\beta_{t}^{2}}{2\sigma_{t}^{2}\alpha_{t}\left(1-\alpha_{t}\right)}\|\epsilon_{t}-\epsilon_{\theta}(\sqrt{\bar{\alpha}_{t}}x_{0}+\sqrt{1-\bar{\alpha}_{t}}\epsilon_{t},t)\|^{2}\right]\end{aligned}   \tag*{(8)}$$

It has been observed that DDPM [21] relies solely on the marginals  $ q(x_t|x_0) $ during sampling and loss optimization, rather than directly utilizing the joint probability  $ q(x_1:T|x_0) $. Given that many joint distributions share the same marginals, DDIM [54] proposed a non-Markovian forward process as an alternative to the Markovian noise addition process inherent in DDPM. However, the final non-Markovian noise addition is structurally identical to that of DDPM, with the only distinction being the sampling process.

 $$ x_{t-1}^{\prime}=\sqrt{\bar{\alpha}_{t-1}}f_{\theta}(x_{t}^{\prime},t)+\sqrt{1-\bar{\alpha}_{t-1}-\sigma_{t}^{2}}\cdot\epsilon_{\theta}(x_{t}^{\prime},t)+\sigma_{t}\epsilon $$ 

Where  $ \alpha_{t} $ and  $ \epsilon $ are consistent with the notations used in DDPM.  $ \sigma_{t} $ represents the variance of the noise. The function

 $$ f_{\theta}(x_{t}^{\prime},t)=\left(\frac{x_{t}^{\prime}-\sqrt{1-\bar{\alpha}_{t}}\epsilon_{\theta}(x_{t}^{\prime},t)}{\sqrt{\bar{\alpha}_{t}}}\right) $$ 

denotes the prediction of  $ x'_{0} $ at timestep  $ t $, given  $ x'_{t} $ and the pretrained model  $ \epsilon_{\theta} $. It is worth noting that when  $ \sigma_{t}=0 $, the procedure is referred to as the DDIM sampling process, which deterministically generates a sample from latent variables.