two instances, GSA₁ and GSA₂, demonstrating different trade-offs within the GSA framework.

To ensure the comprehensiveness and integrity of our investigation, we conduct experiments on the fundamental unconditional Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models (DDPM) [21] and the state-of-the-art Imagen model [48], which presently leads the text-to-image domain. CIFAR-10 and ImageNet datasets are utilized to train the unconditional diffusion models, while the MS COCO dataset is employed to train the Imagen model. We further explore the influence of varying parameters on the effectiveness of the attack. Ultimately, we validate the effectiveness of our attack strategy with a near 100% success rate, thus underscoring the imperative need for addressing the security aspects of diffusion models.

The contributions of our work are two-fold:

• We have analyzed membership inference attacks on diffusion models in existing research. Moreover, we have conceptualized our attack for new practical scenarios and conducted analyses across various dimensions, such as timesteps and model layers.

- We conducted experiments on three datasets using the traditional DDPM model and the cutting-edge text-to-image model, Imagen. Our results demonstrate extremely high accuracy across four evaluation metrics, underscoring the effectiveness of using gradients as attack features.

Roadmap. In Section 2, we introduce the background of diffusion models and delve into membership inference attacks. We also discuss the challenges we encountered and review existing attacks on diffusion models. In Section 3, we present our attack strategy. The experimental setup is detailed in Section 4, while Section 5 showcases the results of these experiments. In Section 6, we apply our GSA framework at the model layer level, demonstrating a further reduction in computational time. Section 7 illustrates the performance of our attack under various defense strategies. The limitations of our attack are discussed in Section 8. Section 9 touches upon related works, and finally, we conclude in Section 10.

## 2 Background

### 2.1 Diffusion Models

The work of the Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models [21] (DDPM) has drawn considerable attention and led to the recent development of diffusion models [53, 56], which are characteristically described as “progressively denoising to obtain the true image”. There are two categories of diffusion models: unconditional diffusion models, which do not incorporate any guiding input for image output, and conditional diffusion models, which were developed subsequently and generate images based on provided inputs information, such as labels [10, 22], text [23, 39, 42, 45, 48], or low-resolution images [47, 49].

Unconditional Diffusion Models. A diffusion model has two phases. First, during the forward process, the model progressively adds standard Gaussian noise to the true image  $ x_0 $ through T steps. The image at time t is given by

$$  x_{t}=\sqrt{\bar{\alpha}_{t}}x_{0}+\sqrt{1-\bar{\alpha}_{t}}\epsilon_{t}   \tag*{(1)}$$

where  $ \epsilon_t $ represents the standard Gaussian noise obtained from the reparameterization trick. Furthermore,  $ \bar{\alpha}_t $ is defined as the product  $ \prod_{i=1}^t \alpha_i $, with each parameter  $ \alpha_i $ monotonically decreasing and lying in the interval  $ [0, 1] $.



Second, the reverse process begins with the noise image  $ x_T' $, where  $ x_T' \sim N(0, I) $, and it progressively denoises to yield  $ x_{T-1}', x_{T-2}' \ldots, x_0' $ through the neural network (e.g., U-Net)  $ \epsilon_\theta $, parameterized by  $ \theta $. Specifically,  $ \epsilon_\theta $ takes a image  $ x_t' $ and a timestep  $ t $ as inputs, and predicts the noise, represented by  $ \epsilon_\theta(x_t', t) $ that should be eliminated at step  $ t $. The final goal is to maximize the similarity between each pair of original image  $ x_0 $ and the denoised image  $ x_0' $.

During the training phase, the objective is to minimize the loss, which is defined as the expected squared  $ \ell_{2} $ error. This error is evaluated overall  $ \epsilon_{t} $ and the training sample  $ x_{0} $, as given by:

$$  L_{t}(\theta)=\mathbb{E}_{x_{0},\epsilon_{t}}\left[\|\epsilon_{t}-\epsilon_{\theta}(\sqrt{\bar{\alpha}_{t}}x_{0}+\sqrt{1-\bar{\alpha}_{t}}\epsilon_{t},t)\|_{2}^{2}\right].   \tag*{(2)}$$

More details can be found in Appendix A.

Conditional Diffusion Models. As the study of diffusion models deepens, it has been discovered that classifiers can be utilized to guide the diffusion model generation [10]. Specifically, given a pretrained classifier M and a target class c, one can derive 'directional information',  $ \nabla_{x_t} \log M(x_t | y) $, for an image  $ x_t $ and fuse it to the generation process of unconditional diffusion models.

In the text domain, Imagen employs T5, a significant language model [41], as a text encoder to guide the generation process through text embeddings [48]. Specifically, a distinct time embedding vector is constructed and modified during each timestep to align with the image's dimensions. The text embedding extracted from T5 is then incorporated with the time embedding and image to generate the conditional image.

### 2.2 Membership Inference Attack

Membership inference attack (MIA) tries to predict if a given sample was part of the training set used to train the target model. It has been widely applied to different deep learning models, including classification models [3, 31, 33, 50, 52, 63, 64], generative adversarial networks (GANs) [5, 19, 20, 26, 37], and diffusion models [4, 12, 27, 30, 35, 62]. MIA exploits the differential responses exhibited by machine learning models to training data. Specifically, these models react differently to samples they have been trained on, termed 'member samples', versus unfamiliar 'non-member samples'.

Shokri et al. [52] first proposed the technique of shadow training. This involves training shadow models to imitate the behavior of the target model. An attack model is then trained based on the output of the shadow models. This transforms membership inference into a classification problem.

Considering the increased computational overhead of training a machine learning model as an attack model, Yeom et al. [64] proposed a more streamlined and resource-efficient approach—the threshold-based MIA. This method begins with the computation of loss values from the model's output prediction vector. These calculated loss metrics are subsequently compared against a chosen threshold to infer the membership status of a data record.

Carlini et al. [3] argue that while threshold-based attacks are effective for non-membership inference, they lack precision for member sample classification. This discrepancy arises as the approach simplifies the comparison process by scaling all samples based on