their loss values, potentially omitting crucial sample-specific properties. To address this, Carlini et al. propose an alternative approach called Likelihood Ratio Attack (LiRA), which derives two distributions from the model's confidence values. These distributions are then used to determine the membership status of a given sample, thereby offering a more balanced evaluation of both member and non-member sets.

### 2.3 Problem Formulation

In this paper, we investigate MIA in diffusion models. We are given a target model. The task is to predict whether a certain sample is part of the training dataset. MIA on diffusion models (compared to classifiers) presents distinct challenges: Classic classifier models yield vectors. Thus people can use its prediction vector as a feature for MIA [3, 33, 50, 52, 63, 64], which constitutes a black-box attack. Diffusion models produce images as outputs, making it challenging to launch an attack on a diffusion model using only its output, i.e., the image. The current state-of-the-art attacks on diffusion models are predominantly white-box, relying on the loss generated during the evaluation process, as noted in Table 1. Our work is mainly focused on exploring how to get effective attack features. After getting the attack features (gradient data), we use it to train a machine learning model (i.e., XGBoost, MLP) as the attack model to identify the data sample.

Threat Model. We operate under the assumption that an attacker possesses white-box access to the target model, encompassing its architectural intricacies and specific parameter details. In the context of conditional diffusion models, we assume that the attacker knows all modalities (for instance, image-text pairs) pertaining to the victim models. The same assumption has also been adopted in several existing works, which we will discuss in detail later [4, 27, 35]. As more people openly share their model architectures and pre-trained checkpoints (like in HuggingFace $ ^{2} $), the scenario is realistic. A motivating example is an artist who suspects his artwork is being used without permission to train a diffusion model. This model is subsequently uploaded to the HuggingFace website. As a result, others can use it to generate images that mimic the artist's unique style. Clearly, this constitutes a severe violation of the artist's intellectual property rights. The artist, as a result, downloads the model and checks whether their artwork is used to train the model.

Hu et al. [27] and Matsumoto et al. [35] suggested utilizing the loss, as defined in Equation 2, at each timestep t as a feature in conjunction with a threshold-based MIA. Leveraging the loss directly as an attack vector presents the most intuitive attack approach. However, the loss value differences between member and non-member samples vary across different timesteps. For each model, additional

### 2.4 Existing Work

Existing White-Box Attacks to Diffusion Models. A key challenge in applying MIA is selecting the appropriate information/features to distinguish member and non-member samples. Most effective attacks on diffusion models predominantly employ white-box techniques  $ [4, 27, 35] $.

<div style="text-align: center;">Table 1: Compared with existing work, we argue that with white-box access, using gradients is more effective. We also evaluated more comprehensively on larger datasets.</div>



<table border=1 style='margin: auto; word-wrap: break-word;'><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Attack</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Feature</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Victim target</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Training dataset</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>[4]</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Loss (LiRA)</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Unconditional Conditional</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>CIFAR-10</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>[27]</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Loss (Threshold)</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Unconditional</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>FFHQ</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>[35]</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Loss (Threshold)</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Unconditional</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>CIFAR-10</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Ours</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Gradient (ML model)</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Unconditional Conditional</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>CIFAR-10 ImageNet MS COCO</td></tr></table>

computation is required to identify the most effective range of timesteps, which greatly increases pre-computational cost and becomes impractical. Additionally, since the loss value is a scalar, it may lead to unstable attack accuracy due to insufficient information for reliable differentiation. In contrast, gradient data can effectively differentiate between member and non-member samples without requiring prior timestep selection. As high-dimensional data, it also enhances the accuracy and robustness of the attack.

Carlini et al. [4] also opted to employ loss and use the LiRA framework. In the context of the LiRA online framework, the attack strategy necessitates utilizing target points for the training of several shadow models, a process that is both computationally demanding and time-intensive. Subsequently, it constructs the  $ \mathbb{D}_{in} $ and  $ \mathbb{D}_{out} $ distributions at each timestep. In the original experiments reported in the paper, 16 shadow models were trained to generate distributions for each timestep. For more sophisticated models, such as Stable Diffusion [45], retraining a large cohort of shadow models to generate loss distributions poses a considerable challenge. In our work, we aim to use fewer shadow models to execute the attack while maintaining effectiveness and efficiency. More details about LiRA can be found at Appendix B.

Other Attacks. Several studies have utilized the properties of DDIM [29, 54, 57] (as detailed in Appendix A) for attacks [12, 30]. However, these attacks are contingent on the deterministic reverse process of DDIM, and cannot be directly applied to DDPM. Detailed discussions of these attacks are deferred to Appendix D.1 and Appendix D.2.

Prior to diffusion models, there are also MIAs for GANs [5, 19, 20, 26, 37]. Note that GANs and diffusion models differ in their overall architecture; therefore, white-box attacks toward GANs are not directly applicable to diffusion models. On the other hand, black-box attacks share similarities as both GANs and diffusion models are generative models. In particular, inspired by the attacks of GAN-Leaks [5], Matsumoto et al. [35] proposed an attack that is based on the reconstruction error of the target image and a set of generated samples. We will present the details at Appendix D.3, but the attack shows limited effectiveness.

Meanwhile, Wu et al. [62] carried out black-box attacks on pretrained text-to-image diffusion models, launching attacks at both the pixel-level and semantic-level. However, their method does not employ the shadow model technique as proposed in [52], instead