conducting all experiments directly on the target model and selecting the training set of the pre-trained model as the member set. Consequently, this attack strategy is not universally effective for every victim model.

Hu et al. [27] also initiated an interesting threat model (the so-called grey-box model or query-based model) where the attacker sees the intermediate denoised images and proposes an attack based on the similarities (likelihood) between pairs of these intermediate samples and those in the forward pass (details also in Appendix D.4).

## 3 Methodology

Previous works on attacking the diffusion model encompass black-box [35, 62], gray-box [12, 27, 30], and white-box approaches [4, 27, 35]. Upon comparing their accuracy and considering practical implications, we contend that white-box attacks on diffusion models are the most effective.

### 3.1 Theoretical Foundation and Challenge

Current white-box attacks often manipulate the loss at different timesteps through various methods (e.g., threshold [27, 35] or distribution [4]). However, it often necessitates a substantial amount of time to identify the timestep where the loss can most distinctly differentiate between the member and non-member set samples. We argue that rather than relying on the loss information, given white-box access, it could be more insightful to leverage gradient information that better reflects the model's different responses to member samples and non-member samples. The intuition using gradients is, as gradients are generally very high-dimensional (than losses), it offers a more nuanced representation of its response to an input target point compared to mere loss values.

Figure 1 shows the general idea of our attack. It is important to note that, owing to the specific architecture of the diffusion model, a single query point can yield multiple loss values originating from different timesteps. Subsequently, based on the loss L, we can derive the gradients using the standard back-propagation technique and use the gradients as features to train a machine-learning model to execute MIA.

In the diffusion model, the training loss function is defined as Equation 2. For each sample, noise is added using Equation 1, generating a noised sample  $ x_t $. The trained U-Net modules then predict the noise  $ \epsilon_t $ that needs to be denoised at timestep  $ t $, based on  $ x_t $ and  $ t $. The existing methods [4, 27, 35] assume that the loss value of a member sample is typically smaller than that of a non-member sample, which indicates intuitively

 $$ x\in\mathcal{D}_{m}\text{if and only if}\|\boldsymbol{\epsilon}_{t}-\boldsymbol{\epsilon}_{\theta}(x_{t},t)\|_{2}^{2}<\tau $$ 

where  $ \epsilon_{\theta}(x_{t}, t) $ represents the predicted noise at t-th step and  $ \epsilon_{t} $ is the ground true noise sample. However, we have observed that this approach can lead to misjudgments. For example, inherently complex member samples might exhibit higher loss values compared to simpler non-member samples, a phenomenon also observed in GAN-Leaks [5]. This indicates that relying solely on loss as the attack feature may introduce some degree of bias. Carlini et al. [4] also found that using loss values as the sole criterion for determining membership is inadequate.

In our work, we propose using gradient values as attack features to better capture the model's reaction to samples. Unlike loss values, which are scalars and provide limited information, gradient data offer a more comprehensive view. Additionally, even when two samples have identical loss values, their corresponding gradients can differ, as gradients depend on the specific inputs within the computational graph. For instance, the diffusion model  $ \epsilon_{\theta} $ (with parameter  $ \theta $) calculates gradients for a query sample x at t-th step; the gradients can be expressed as:



$$  \nabla_{\theta}L_{t}(\theta,x)=\nabla_{\theta}\|\epsilon_{t}-\epsilon_{\theta}(x_{t},t)\|^{2}   \tag*{(3)}$$

According to the definition of the Euclidean norm squared, we can expand the squared term in Equation 3:

 $$ \begin{align*}\left\|\boldsymbol{\epsilon}_{t}-\boldsymbol{\epsilon}_{\theta}(x_{t},t)\right\|^{2}&=\left(\boldsymbol{\epsilon}_{t}-\boldsymbol{\epsilon}_{\theta}(x_{t},t)\right)^{\top}\left(\boldsymbol{\epsilon}_{t}-\boldsymbol{\epsilon}_{\theta}(x_{t},t)\right)\\&=\left\|\boldsymbol{\epsilon}_{t}\right\|^{2}-2\boldsymbol{\epsilon}_{t}^{\top}\boldsymbol{\epsilon}_{\theta}(x_{t},t)+\left\|\boldsymbol{\epsilon}_{\theta}(x_{t},t)\right\|^{2}.\end{align*} $$ 

Then, we proceed to compute the derivatives of each of the three expanded terms with respect to  $ \theta $:

$$  \begin{align*}\nabla_{\theta}L_{t}(\theta,x)&=\nabla_{\theta}\left(\left\|\boldsymbol{\epsilon}_{t}\right\|^{2}-2\boldsymbol{\epsilon}_{t}^{\top}\boldsymbol{\epsilon}_{\theta}(x_{t},t)+\left\|\boldsymbol{\epsilon}_{\theta}(x_{t},t)\right\|^{2}\right)\\&=\nabla_{\theta}\left\|\boldsymbol{\epsilon}_{t}\right\|^{2}-2\nabla_{\theta}\left(\boldsymbol{\epsilon}_{t}^{\top}\boldsymbol{\epsilon}_{\theta}(x_{t},t)\right)+\nabla_{\theta}\left\|\boldsymbol{\epsilon}_{\theta}(x_{t},t)\right\|^{2}\\&=0-2\boldsymbol{\epsilon}_{t}^{\top}\nabla_{\theta}\boldsymbol{\epsilon}_{\theta}(x_{t},t)+2\boldsymbol{\epsilon}_{\theta}(x_{t},t)^{\top}\nabla_{\theta}\boldsymbol{\epsilon}_{\theta}(x_{t},t)\\&=-2\left(\boldsymbol{\epsilon}_{t}-\boldsymbol{\epsilon}_{\theta}(x_{t},t)\right)^{\top}\nabla_{\theta}\boldsymbol{\epsilon}_{\theta}(x_{t},t)\\&=2\left(\boldsymbol{\epsilon}_{\theta}(x_{t},t)-\boldsymbol{\epsilon}_{t}\right)^{\top}\nabla_{\theta}\boldsymbol{\epsilon}_{\theta}(x_{t},t)\end{align*}   \tag*{(4)}$$

From Equation 4, we show the gradient depends on both the value of the training loss  $ \left(\epsilon_{\theta}(x_t, t) - \epsilon_t\right) $ and the specific query sample being computed  $ \left(\nabla_{\theta} \epsilon_{\theta}(x_t, t)\right) $. For member and non-member samples that produce the same numerical loss value, gradients can still use  $ \nabla_{\theta} \epsilon_{\theta}(x_t, t) $ to discriminate them. We also present the experimental evidence to support our finding in Appendix C.

Intuitively, during the training phase, the model fits to member samples. Therefore, when encountering a training sample, the already converged model requires less parameter adjustment compared to a non-member sample, leading to smaller gradients. Based on this intuition, we use the model's gradient values as features for detecting query sample membership, as expressed by:

 $$ x\in\mathcal{D}_{m}\text{if and only if}\nabla_{\theta}\|\epsilon_{t}-\epsilon_{\theta}(x_{t},t)\|_{2}^{2}<\tau $$ 

The above findings demonstrate that even when the loss values are equal, the gradient information obtained from different samples still varies. We believe that this characteristic of gradient data represents the model's response to the query sample more effectively than the attack features used in existing methods [4, 27, 35], thereby enabling more successful attacks. However, the key challenge of using gradients for MIA is utilizing gradient information effectively. Considering the substantial number of parameters in the diffusion model (for instance, in our experiments, the Imagen model boasts close to 250 million trained parameters, while the DDPM model approaches 114 million), training the attack model by using the gradient of each model parameter for every image is both computationally impractical and prone to overfitting, despite its potential to maximally differentiate between member and non-member samples. Moreover, in diffusion models, the diffusion process typically involves T timesteps (usually set to 1000). For each timestep t in the