We benchmark GSA₁ and GSA₂ against existing methodologies, maintaining all other model parameters consistent. Contrasting traditional loss-based white-box attacks such as LiRA [4] and others techniques [27, 35], we provide a thorough evaluation highlighting the superior efficacy of GSA₁ and GSA₂. The baseline approach [27, 35, 64] depicted in Table 4 is the most intuitive, which predicts the sample as a non-member if the loss exceeds a certain value and vice versa [35]. This also represents the most traditional judgment method in MIA, utilized here as the baseline.

5.1.1 Feature Informative. LSA $ ^{*} $ refers to the results of training the attack model using the loss under the same training conditions and sampling frequency as GSA $ _{1} $ and GSA $ _{2} $. The sole distinction between LSA $ ^{*} $ and GSA lies in their features: while LSA $ ^{*} $ utilizes loss as its attack feature, GSA employs the gradient. Comparative results between them substantiate that the gradient information of the diffusion model is more aptly suited as attack features.

It is apparent from Table 4 that both GSA₁ and GSA₂ exceed other techniques in terms of all evaluation metrics. Under the AUC criterion, LiRA [4] also attains a high attack accuracy, attributed to excessive training steps and many shadow models. However, when ensuring an equivalent quantity of shadow models and training epochs for the LiRA based on the LiRA framework, its ASR, TPR, and AUC scores are significantly lower compared to GSA₁ and GSA₂. In the original paper, the LiRA framework achieves TPRs of 5% after training for 200 epochs, with the FPRs fixed at 1%. Remarkably, after training for 4080 epochs, the TPR increases to 99%. In contrast, for GSA₁ and GSA₂, TPRs of 99.7% and 78.75% are respectively achieved after only 400 epochs, underscoring a more efficient attack strategy. This essentially corroborates our core proposition that gradient information of the model exhibits a more pronounced response to member set samples than loss.


5.1.2 Timestep Selection. Moreover, the ‘time zone’ demonstrating discernible differences in the loss distribution between members and non-members vary across different models and datasets [4, 12, 27, 35]. Consequently, to achieve a more potent attack, it becomes imperative to extract the loss and establish thresholds or distributions for each timestep using shadow models, aiming to pinpoint the most efficacious ‘time zone’. In contrast, both GSA₁ and GSA₂ execute attacks by solely harnessing the gradient information derived from equidistant sampling timesteps across the T diffusion steps, achieving similar attack accuracy in just one-thirtieth of the time. Given a consistent dataset size and model architecture, extracting loss across T steps takes 36 hours. In contrast, GSA₁ and GSA₂ achieve the same accuracy level in less than 1 hour by extracting gradients from 10 equidistant sampling timesteps.

To further demonstrate that the optimal timestep for distinguishing between member and non-member samples using loss varies across different datasets and models. We plot the loss distribution


<div style="text-align: center;">(a) Impact of training epoch</div>


<div style="text-align: center;">(b) Impact of  $ |K| $</div>


<div style="text-align: center;">Figure 4: “-I-” and “-C-” denote experiments with ImageNet and CIFAR-10 datasets. Panel (a) (left) reveals that attacks are more effective when shadow and target models closely fit the training data; (right) however, increased fitting disparities between them weaken the attack. Panel (b) shows that greater sampling frequency boosts the attack’s effectiveness, possibly due to acquiring finer data and getting more informative timestep.</div>


for three distinct datasets used in our experiment: CIFAR-10, ImageNet, and MS COCO. Following the methodology of LiRA in attacking diffusion models [4], we identified the optimal timestep for each of the three distinct datasets that best distinguishes member from non-member samples. For this, we equidistantly sampled 10 timesteps from shadow models (the training times of these shadow models align with those presented in Table 3). However, we observed that the identified timesteps across the three datasets were not consistent. Upon visualizing the loss distribution at these specific timesteps in Figure 2, we found that even at these optimal points, the loss distribution did not effectively differentiate between member and non-member samples. DDPM trained on the CIFAR-10 dataset clearly differentiates between member and non-member loss distributions. However, such a difference is not pronounced for models trained on ImageNet and MS COCO datasets. For models to execute attacks on the ImageNet and MS COCO datasets, it is essential to compute the loss distribution across a broader range of timesteps and increase their training time.

Using the same model parameters and sampling frequency as in Figure 2, we tried attacks with GSA₁ and GSA₂. The attack features were derived from the gradients of timesteps sampled from T using the same sampling frequency as previously employed. We visualized this high-dimensional gradient information using t-SNE [59] in Figure 3. It can be observed quite intuitively, that across all datasets, both GSA₁ and GSA₂ can effortlessly differentiate between target member and target non-member data using the features derived from the gradients of shadow models.

• In the first scenario, the attacker knows the target model's training epochs and matches the shadow model's training accordingly.

### 5.2 Attacking Unconditional Diffusion Model

In this section, we trained six shadow models to facilitate the attack. We focus on unconditional diffusion models and test on CIFAR-10 and ImageNet datasets.

Training on Different Epochs. Our first goal is to understand how varying training epochs for target and shadow models influence our attacks. We considered two possible scenarios.

• In the second scenario, the attacker is unaware of the target model's training details and varies only the shadow model's training epochs for experimentation.


In Figure 4a, we present the experimental results under the first scenario. These findings indicate that as the training epochs for both the target and shadow models increase, the attack success rate for GSA₁ and GSA₂ consistently improves. In this context, the suffixes “-I” and “-C-” refer to experiments on ImageNet and CIFAR-10, respectively. We postulate that with an increasing number of epochs, the model tends to fit the training data more closely after convergence. This amplifies the gradient discrepancy between member and non-member samples, subsequently bolstering the efficacy of the attack.

In the second scenario setting, when the training epochs of the target model are fixed at 200 epochs, the attack accuracy is optimal when the shadow model's training epochs closely match those of the target model. Furthermore, observations from Figure 4a suggest that the overall efficacy of membership inference attacks is closely tied to the consistency in the degree of fit between the shadow models and their training data as compared to that of the target model with its training data. When shadow models exceed the target model in data fitting, it does not invariably lead to an improved attack performance. Contrarily, the attack's success rate might diminish due to disparities in their fitting levels.

Then, our experiments explore the influence of the degree of overfitting in both shadow and target models on attack accuracy. Moreover, we examine the impact of discrepancies in data-fitting levels between the target and shadow models on the performance of the attack.

Sampling Frequency Variation Analysis. In both GSA₁ and GSA₂, the term 'sample times' (|K|) refers to the number of elements in the set K, derived through the equidistant sampling of timesteps from T. GSA₁ and GSA₂ employ statistical methods on distinct pieces of information; the former determines the mean loss over the |K| timesteps, while the latter computes the average gradient value. Our initial hypothesis was that an increased number of sampling instances, providing the attack model with more information and potentially capturing distinct timesteps that clearly


differentiate between member and non-member samples, would lead to improved attack accuracy.

Figure 4b confirms our initial hypothesis that collecting more gradient information from a single sample enhances the attack's success rate. In all attacks, we maintained a constant setting of 1000 diffusion steps and conducted equidistant sampling across these steps. Our focus was on understanding how varying the sampling frequencies during the evaluation process of a single sample affects the attack's accuracy.

From our experimental data, we observed that the attack's success rate was lowest when gradient information was collected only once per sample. This limited data collection blurred the distinction between member and non-member set samples. Notably, the precision saw a significant boost when the collection frequency increased. However, after reaching a threshold of ten collections per sample, further increases in frequency showed diminishing returns in precision. Thus, we inferred that, for both attack strategies across these two datasets, collecting gradient information ten times from each sample is optimal for distinguishing between member and non-member sets. In other experiments, to strike a balance between efficiency and precision, we will adopt this ten-times-per-sample information collection formula as the default setting.

Different Diffusion Steps and Training Image Resolution. In the context of diffusion models, increasing the number of diffusion steps can potentially enhance image quality. This improvement stems from the model's refined capability to capture detailed image nuances by reducing noise over more steps. However, as we add more diffusion steps, the optimization challenge might become more complex. This complexity can slow down the convergence speed and require more detailed hyperparameter adjustments to find the optimal model setup.

When contemplating membership inference attacks, their genesis primarily stems from overfitting during the training phase, leading to discrepancies between the member and non-member samples. We theorize that if adding diffusion steps slows model convergence, it might reduce the overfitting phenomenon, affecting the attack's success. We set the total diffusion steps from 500 to 2000, kept other parameters unchanged, and retrained the model on both ImageNet and CIFAR-10 datasets.

In Figure 5a, we observe that increasing the number of diffusion steps significantly influences our attack success rate, which aligns with our hypothesis. For models trained on CIFAR-10, both  $ GSA_{1} $ and  $ GSA_{2} $ achieve an attack accuracy close to 1.00 after training with 300 epochs. However, as the number of denoising steps increases, the attack accuracy decreases by nearly 10% when the denoising step is set to 2000. The increase in denoising steps leads to a decrease in attack accuracy. This pattern is also observed for models trained on ImageNet when attacked with  $ GSA_{1} $ and  $ GSA_{2} $. We think this is because MIA relies on exploiting the model's overfitting. However, increasing the denoising steps slows down the model's convergence, thereby impairing the effectiveness of the attack.

Moreover, input data resolution also plays an important role in determining attack success rates. High-resolution images help in distinguishing between member and non-member samples due to their intricate details, but they also require more computational resources and longer training times. Such images may also decelerate the convergence rate of the model, potentially mitigating the extent of overfitting and necessitating additional epochs to achieve equivalent attack outcomes as before. To investigate the impact of high-resolution images on attack performance, we conducted the experiments using both GSA $ _{1} $ and GSA $ _{2} $ on images with resolutions ranging from 64 to 256 pixels.


In Figure 6, we observed that the highest attack accuracy was achieved with GSA₁ and GSA₂ when the image resolution was set to 128 × 128. The results indicate that lower-resolution samples do not necessarily lead to better attack performance. Increasing the resolution from 64 to 128 allows the model to capture more granular details, improving the distinction between member and non-member samples. However, when the resolution is further increased to 256, a noticeable decline in success rate occurs. We believe this is because higher-resolution images require more training steps for the model to converge. Therefore, when the training time is fixed but the resolution increases, the overfitting phenomenon to the training data diminishes. This reduction in overfitting causes the attack to become less effective. Additionally, both excessively high and low resolutions can negatively impact the final attack performance. An optimal resolution exists where the model can capture sufficient details without requiring extensive training, achieving a balanced fit.

Takeaways: In settings where unconditional diffusion models serve as the target model, overfitting is considered foundational for MIAs. Moreover, distinctions between member and non-member samples can vary at different timesteps. Given these factors, we have investigated several elements that could influence the attack's success rate. These factors encompass the number of training epochs, number of sampling timesteps from a single instance (represented as  $ |K| $), the total diffusion steps, and the resolution of the images. Results from these explorations are presented in the aforementioned figures, with ASR adopted as the evaluation metric.

### 5.3 Attacking Conditional Diffusion Model

In this section, we design experiments with Imagen, a state-of-the-art generation model in the text-to-image field. We train two shadow models from scratch, using the MS COCO dataset in this part for training purposes.

Training on Different Epochs. In Figure 5b, consistent with the two attack scenarios posited in Section 5.2, we analyze the effect of training steps on the attack success rate for Imagen models. Our categorization is premised on the attacker's knowledge of the target model's training steps. Notably, when the attacker is uncertain about the number of training steps of the target model, we set the training steps of the target model to a fixed value (in this instance, 400,000 steps). This experimental setup aligns with that of Section 5.2.

Consistent with previous experiments using the unconditional diffusion models, a large proportion of the attack success rate for the Imagen model is influenced by the training steps of the target


<div style="text-align: center;">(a) Impact of diffusion steps</div>


<div style="text-align: center;">(b) Impact of training epoch</div>


<div style="text-align: center;">(c) Impact of  $ |K| $</div>


<div style="text-align: center;">Figure 5: Notations “-I-” and “-C-” are consistent with those in Figure 4a. Panel (a) suggests that increasing the number of diffusion steps, which decelerates convergence, results in a reduced attack success rate. Panel (b) reinforces findings from Figure 4a: enhanced data-fitting by both the shadow and target models boosts the attack’s efficacy. However, when there are disparities in the data fitting, the efficacy diminishes. Panel (c) shows that augmenting the sampling steps for Imagen—thus acquiring more information—significantly improves the attack’s success rate.</div>


<div style="text-align: center;">Table 5: The table presents the performance results of GSA₁ and GSA₂, trained on three different datasets and evaluated using four distinct evaluation metrics.</div>


<table border=1 style='margin: auto; word-wrap: break-word;'><tr><td rowspan="2">Attack method</td><td colspan="2">ASR $ \uparrow $</td><td colspan="3">AUC $ \uparrow $</td><td colspan="3">TPR@1%FPR $ \uparrow $</td><td colspan="3">TPR@0.1%FPR $ \uparrow $</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>CIFAR-10</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>ImagetNet</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>MS COCO</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>CIFAR-10</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>ImagetNet</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>MS COCO</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>CIFAR-10</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>ImagetNet</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>MS COCO</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>CIFAR-10</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>ImagetNet</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>LSA</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.822</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.702</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.684</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.896</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.766</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.746</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.146</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.034</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.073</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.021</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.004</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>GSA $ _{1} $</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.993</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.992</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.977</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.999</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.999</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.997</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.997</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.995</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.954</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.829</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.937</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>GSA $ _{2} $</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.988</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.983</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.994</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.999</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.999</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.999</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.979</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.964</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.998</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.586</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.743</td></tr></table>


<div style="text-align: center;">Figure 6: Results from ImageNet represent the resolution of the image can influence the attack's training accuracy by affecting the model's convergence rate.</div>


model and shadow models. Precisely, the more the target model overfits the data, the higher the success rate of the MIA, even if the overfitting phenomenon during the shadow model's training is not notably pronounced. For example, Figure 5b shows that when deploying the GSA₂ method with the shadow model trained for 200,000 steps, an attack success rate of up to 84.9% can be achieved if the target model has been trained for 400,000 steps. However, if the target model's training steps are only 200,000, the attack success rate drops to merely 60.7%, representing a nearly 25% decrease in accuracy. Hence, the degree to which the target model fits the data profoundly influences the effectiveness of the attack. Surprisingly, when the training steps of the shadow models exceed those of the target model, further increasing the training steps for the shadow models leads to a decline in the success rate of MIA attacks. This finding is similar to the phenomenon observed in Section 5.2 (i.e., the efficacy of the attack is intimately linked to the disparity in data-fitting degrees between the shadow models and their training datasets and the target model with its respective training data.).


Sampling Frequency Variation Analysis. It is evident, as depicted in Figure 5c, that the frequency of information extraction from a single sample by the model plays a pivotal role in influencing the success rate of the attack. Specifically for Imagen, when both shadow models have undergone extensive training iterations, the attack model trained with  $ |K| = 10 $ achieves a remarkable accuracy of 99.4%. More intriguingly, when the FPR is controlled at 1% and 0.1%, the TPR is recorded at 99.78% and 97.52% respectively. These remarkable findings highlight a substantial increase in accuracy, forming a significant discrepancy compared to the basic accuracy level of 78.1% achieved with  $ |K| = 1 $.

Through the utilization of two approaches, GSA₁ and GSA₂, we seek to elucidate the impact of equidistant timestep sampling frequency on MIA, mainly when applied to large-scale models such as


Imagen. The ultimate goal is to ascertain if we can conserve computational resources without compromising attack effectiveness.

In Figure 5c, we maintain consistent training iterations for both the target and shadow models. This graph depicts how different equidistant timestep sampling frequencies affect the success rate of GSA₁ and GSA₂. We experimented with four distinct frequencies: 1, 2, 5, and 10. Evidently, when restricted to one sampling time, the attack success rate plummets to the lowest. When the sampling frequency doubles, the attack success rate sees a notable increase. The outcome difference between two and five sampling times is minimal for GSA₁. Nevertheless, at a frequency of five times, GSA₂ achieves a success rate comparable to GSA₁ with ten sample times Impressively, ten sampling times boosts GSA₂'s success rate to nearly 100%, indicating a marked improvement. Given the high accuracy achieved by sampling ten times for each sample, further sampling appears unnecessary.

Takeaways: We tested our two attacks primarily on the large-scale model, Imagen, taking into account two factors: the number of training epochs and the timestep sampling frequency. We have examined how overfitting and timestep selection frequency affect the efficacy of our attack strategies.

## 6 Ablation Study

Following the framework described in Section 3.2, our approach effectively subsamples and aggregates gradients across various dimensions. As evident in Table 5, both GSA₁ and GSA₂ demonstrate exemplary performance on all experiments. Subsequently, we further explore the potential for subsampling and aggregating information from the model layer dimension. We aim to ascertain how gradient data from the model layer influences the attack success rates of GSA₁ and GSA₂. Initially, both GSA₁ and GSA₂ extracted gradient information from every layer of the model for the training of the attack model. However, with the increasing size of dataset and growing model complexity, the computational overhead also rises. Thus, we aim to investigate whether it is feasible to ensure the attack success rates of GSA₁ and GSA₂ without necessarily extracting gradient information from all layers of the model.

Pursuant to this idea, We once again conducted experiments using GSA₁ and GSA₂ on datasets, including CIFAR-10, ImageNet, and MS COCO, while maintaining all other settings according to the default configuration in Table 3. We gradually increased the depth of layers from which we collected gradient information. As illustrated in Figure 9, the x-axis denotes the cumulative number of layers from which gradients are gathered, starting from the top layer. The y-axis employs the True Positive Rate (TPR) at a False Positive Rate (FPR) of 0.1% as the evaluative criterion. The results indicate that as we collect gradient information from increasing layers, the attack success rate correspondingly escalates due to enhanced information accessibility. Remarkably, attaining the highest attack success rate can be achieved merely by gathering gradient data from the top 80% layers of the models. Accordingly, it may not be essential to extract gradient information from each distinct layer of the model, potentially leading to significant computational resource savings.


<div style="text-align: center;">Figure 7: The performance of LSA $ ^{*} $, GSA $ _{1} $ and GSA $ _{2} $ under varying defensive strategies is displayed. ‘Vanilla’ refers to the model without any defense methods. ‘RA’ represents RandAugment, and ‘RHF’ denotes RandomHorizontalFlip.</div>


## 7 Defenses

Membership inference attacks are significantly fueled by the overfitting of models to their training data. Thus, mitigating overfitting, such as through data augmentation, could reduce the success rate of these attacks. We employed various methods of data augmentation [8, 9] methods and DP-SGD [1, 13], a strong privacy-preserving method, as defensive mechanisms against the LSA $ ^{*} $, GSA $ _{1} $ and GSA $ _{2} $ attacks. The results following the implementation of these defense mechanisms are presented in Table 6.

Firstly, fundamental data augmentation techniques such as Cutout [9] and RandomHorizontalFlip (RHF) were employed as defensive measures. All experiments against LSA*, GSA₁, and GSA₂ were conducted using DDPM [21] trained on the CIFAR-10 dataset. In these experiments, the model parameters for LSA* were identical to those for GSA₁ and GSA₂, with the only difference being that LSA* used the loss value as attack features. As shown in Table 6, without any added defense mechanisms, all three attacks achieved high success rates, with GSA₁ and GSA₂ outperforming LSA* (aligned with Section 5.1). When Cutout and RandomHorizontalFlip were applied, LSA* was much more affected than GSA₁ and GSA₂. Specifically, LSA*’s ASR and AUC dropped to around 50% with RHF, while GSA₁ and GSA₂ maintained ASR near 0.80 and AUC scores are above 0.80. This represents that when defending against fundamental data augmentations, the gradient-based GSA₁ and GSA₂ are more robust compared to the loss-based LSA*.

Then, we evaluated the attack performance of LSA*, GSA₁, and GSA₂ using more powerful defensive strategies: DP-SGD [1, 13] and RandAugment [8]. DP-SGD, a widely used method, protects training datasets in machine learning by adding noise to the gradient of each sample, thereby ensuring data privacy. In our experiment, we set the clipping bound C to 1 and the failure probability δ to  $ 1 \times 10^{-5} $, keeping the experimental settings consistent with the


<div style="text-align: center;">Table 6: Efficacy of various defensive measures against LSA $ ^{*} $, GSA $ _{1} $, and GSA $ _{2} $. Specifically, DP-SGD and RandAugment significantly hindered the attacks' effectiveness.</div>


<table border=1 style='margin: auto; word-wrap: break-word;'><tr><td rowspan="2">Method</td><td colspan="2">DP-SGD</td><td colspan="2">RandAugment</td><td colspan="2">RandomHorizontalFlip</td><td colspan="2">Cutout</td><td colspan="2">No Defense</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>ASR $ \uparrow $</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>AUC $ \uparrow $</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>ASR $ \uparrow $</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>AUC $ \uparrow $</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>ASR $ \uparrow $</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>AUC $ \uparrow $</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>ASR $ \uparrow $</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>AUC $ \uparrow $</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>ASR $ \uparrow $</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>AUC $ \uparrow $</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>LSA $ ^{*} $</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.504</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.508</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.505</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.501</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.524</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.536</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.765</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.846</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.830</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.909</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>GSA $ _{1} $</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.506</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.511</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.512</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.518</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.793</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.874</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.923</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.977</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.993</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.999</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>GSA $ _{2} $</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.501</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.502</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.504</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.507</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.737</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.811</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.979</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.997</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.988</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0.999</td></tr></table>

details in Table 3. The results show that both DP-SGD and RandAugment effectively defend against LSA as well as our GSA $ _{1} $ and GSA $ _{2} $, reducing the attack ASR and AUC to levels similar to random guessing. The defense effects are also visualized in Figure 7.

## 8 Limitation

As shown in Table 5, while GSA₁ and GSA₂ can yield satisfactory results with limited computational resources, they are still constrained by their time consumption. Even after implementing subsampling and aggregation across three dimensions, the process of gradient extraction remains time-intensive for larger datasets and more intricate models compared to simply computing the loss. Future studies are anticipated to explore these areas further and identify additional dimensions for reduction. Additionally, the methods employed in this study, GSA₁ and GSA₂, necessitate gradient information from the model for a successful attack. This suggests that requiring complete parameters of the target model during the attack is a rather stringent condition.
